(H1-H0)
(H1-H2)
(H2-H0)
(H2-H3)
(H3-H0)
(H3-H1)
(HV+LV+T) to E
) An-an (X
) Bn-bn (Y
) Cn-cn (X
)/(X
+ C
- Press X
- Press the test button Record the result.
- Switch on the tester and press H
--------
------------
..... Press X
05 Feb 2001
2006
3) to the three phase LV bushing of the transformer notice that
3B-Turns Ratio Test For Two winding transformer
5000 V Megger Tests
5000V
60 sec.
A word
A word order permit must be issued.
A work order must be issued and the qualified test group
A work order permit must be issued,
APPROVED
AVO - International, 4651 Single Westmorland TX 75237 - 1017 USA
All bushing must be clean otherwise errors reading could be happened
All bushing should be cleaned otherwise errors reading could be occurred,
All bushings should be clean other wise errors reading could be happened
Apply the + VE probe of megger to the S.C LV bushing. Apply the - VE probe of megger to the a S.C HV bushing.
Apply the + ve probe of megger to the S.C. HV bushing
Apply the + ve probe of megger to the S.C. LV bushing
Apply the + ve probe of megger to the S.C. LV& HV bushing
Apply the +ve probe of megger to S.C HV bushing and apply the -ve probe of megger to the earth point of the TR
Apply the +ve probe of megger to the S.C HV bushing.
Apply the +ve probe of megger to the S.C HV bushing. Apply the -ve probe of megger to the S.C LV bushing
Apply the +ve probe of megger to the SH.C. Ter V bushing and apply the -ve probe of megger to the earth point E.
Apply the - ve probe of megger to the S.C. HV bushing
Apply the - ve probe of megger to the S.C. LV bushing
Apply the -ve probe of megger to the S.C LV bushing.
Apply the ve probe of megger to the earth point E
Approved Date:
Be sure that the bushing connections are well cleaned before you apply the megger test cables
Because of the amount of energy that can be stored in a magnetic field, precautions should be taken before disconnecting the test leads from the transformer that is under test.
CH + CHL
CHL
CHL (UST)
CHT (UST)
CL + CHL
CLH
CLT
CT +CHT
Calculated
Changeover the switch to " DF " Positions .And select the range and dial to get balance of pointer.
Checked by: Date: Signature:
Connect HV Cable to S.C. HV Bushing
Connect LV cable of the to S.C.. HV bushing.
Connect LV cable to S.C. LV bushing
Connect the HV three-phase test leads (H1, H2, and H3) to the three phases HV bushings (R, S, T) of the transformer. Notice that Ho is neutral point with the neutral bushing.
Connect the LV three phase test leads (
Connect the S.C H V bushing with S.C LV bushing with S.C Ter bushing
Connect the S.C HV bushing with S.C LV bushing to the point of the earth of the TR.
Connect the S.C HV bushing with the S.C.. LV bushing
Connect the S.C HV bushing with the earth point E of the TR with S.C TER bushing.
Connect the S.C LV bushing with the S.C TER bushing with the earth point of the TR E
Connect the S.C. HV bushing with the earth point E of the TR
Connect the S.C. LV bushing with the earth point of the TR
Connect the bridles to the earth.
Connect the earth of tester to common earth of Substation.
Connect the earth of tester to the common earth of substation.
Connect the earth of the transformer to the earth point of the tester
Connect the power cable and switch the test equipment ON.
Connect the voltage test leads inside the current test leads.
Correct the reading to be at 20 ˚C.
Current
D.C Winding Resistance Test (Three-Winding Transformer)
D.C Winding Resistance Test (Two-Winding Transformer)
DC Winding Resistance Test
Date
Date Approved:
Date to be Reviewed:
Depress the test switch and wait until the current indicator reaches the maximum and stop rising. The yellow ready lamp should be flashing.
Disassemble HV and LV leads of the TR,
Disassemble HV and LV leads of the TRA
Disassemble all clamp from bushings (Hi-voltage side, Low-voltage side and tertiary if exists)
Disassembly all clamps from bushings (High Voltage side, Low Voltage side & tertiary if exists)
Disconnect the transformer from bridles
Document No:
Don't misapply the High leads and Low leads of the test equipment to the transformer bushings.
Dont touch test leads during test be careful of applied voltage 5kv DC.
Dont touch test leads during test, take care of the applied voltage 5kv dc
ESts
Earth the test equipment with common earth of the substation.
Electrical Testing Instruments Scarbough, Ontario Canada M1V1E7
Ensure that test/dumb switch is in dump position (green color).
Equipment
Feb
Feb 2006
Follow the test procedures as the next drawing
For all tests make short circuit onto the 3 bushings of HV side and LV side
For all tests make short circuit onto the 3 bushings of HV side and LV side be sure that the bushing connections are well cleaned before you apply the meager test cables.
HV to (LV+T+E)
HV to LV
HV to LV +E
High Voltage Tan δ testing (Results corrected to be at 20 ˚C
In case of star connection, connect the current test leads to each phase between HV bushing to neutral, and in case of delta connection put them between the two HV bushings
Insulation Capacitance and Tan δ Dissipation Factor for Two Winding Transformer type CB 100 TEOF
Insulation tested
Introduction
Isolate the transformer " out of service "
Isolate the transformer from service and earthed
Isolate the transformer from service and earthed,
Isolate the transformer out of service and earth
Isolate the transformer out of service earthen
Issued to:
Keep test leads apart from the buahings.
LV SIDE
LV to (HV+T+E)
LV to HV
LV to HV +E
Location: Equipment code:
Make short circuit SC for HV side and LV side bushings
Megger 5000 V
Megger Tests
Megger test (5000V)
Networks
Never remove the leads during the testing process and always allow enough time (it may take several minuets) to completely discharge the transformer being tested.
Note :
Note that: Potential test leads must not touch the current leads
Note: Dont operate the tap-changer during the test otherwise the current will be disconnected.
Notes
Pfd Cap.
Phase
Phase A
Phase B
Phase C
Power Transformer
Power Transformers
Procedure:
R60/R15
RANSFORMER
Ratio Test Results (for Three Winding Transformer)
Ratio Test Results (for Two Winding Transformer)
Recocrd anther reading after 60 sec. (R60)
Record the result In the Attached Test sheet
Record the result for each phase and neutral at each tap-changer position in case of tapchanger on the HV side.
Record the results in the record sheet
Record the results in the record sheet.
Record the results on the attached test sheet
Record the results on the attached test sheet.
Remove any earth
Remove any earth.
Repeat each step with each phase (R, S & T).
Repeat steps 4, 5, 7 on the test #1.
Repeat steps 4,5,7 On the pervious test.
Repeat the previous test procedure with rest phases H2, H
Repeat the previous test procedure with rest phases H3, H1 ..... Press X
Resistance at
Resistance at 15 sec
Resistance at 15 sec.
Resistance at 60 sec
Run the test between each as the following steps:
Run the test with each
Safety Precautions
Safety fence (rope) with caution marks surrounding the work area,
Status:
Substations
T to (H+L+E)
T-022-r0
T-024-r0
T-025-r0
T-026-r0
T-027-r0
TAP
TERTIARY
TEST # 1 (C
Tan δ %
Tap Position
Technical Procedure
Test #
Test # 1 HV -------- LV + E
Test # 1 HV------> LV + Ter + E
Test # 2 C
Test # 2 LV -------- HV + E
Test # 2 LV ------> HV + Ter + E
Test # 3 C
Test # 3 HV + LV
Test # 3 Ter V ------> HV + LV + E
Test # 4 C
Test # 4 HV
Test # 4 HV ------> LV
Test # 5 C
Test # 5 HV + LV + Ter ------>
Test # 6 C
Test Sheet
Test equipment type BM11 D
Test equipment type BM11 D, The company address:
Test equipment type CB100-TEOF
Test equipment type DRX 2000, The company address: Electrical Testing Instruments Scarbough, Ontario Canada M1V1E7 telephone 416-292-8181, fax: 416-292-8188
Test equipment type WRT100 The company address:
Test mode " GST H-guard " keep all pervious connections.
Test mode " GST L - Ground "
Test mode " GST l - Guard " Keep all pervious connection.
Test mode " GSTL- ground " . Connect HV cable of the to S.C.. LV bushing
Test mode " UST " Keep all pervious connection.
Test mode " UST-ground " keep all pervious connections.
Testing Procedure(s)
Testing Procedures
The presence of current in load is signaled by flashing caution lamp and a display segment.
The qualified test grup staff should carry the suitable safety category
The qualified test staff should carry the suitable safety category
The qualified test staff should carry the suitable safety category,
The test equipment is specifically designed for the measurement of dc resistance in high inductive alternator windings. It offers a choice of 4 full-scale resistance ranges in 2 channels.
The yellow flashing ready lamp means current is flowing in the load
This document lists the equipment Testing Procedure checklist, which must be performed for Power Transformers. According to each manufacturer Instructions.
This document lists the equipment testing procedure checklist, which must be performed for power transformers according to each manufacturer Instructions.
This document lists the equipment testing procedure checklist, which must be performed for power transformers. according to each manufacturer instructions.
This document lists the steps for testing the turns ratio for the power transformers.
This will cause damage to the test equipment.
Three Winding Resistance Test Report
Three Winding Transformers Test
To terminate the test, depress the dump switch, wait for the ready lamp to stop flashing.
Tools and Equipment
Turn off megger and calculate the ratio (R60 / R15)
Turn off megger and calculate the ratio R60/R15.
Turn off megger and calculate the ratio.(R
Turn off megger and calculate the ratio.(R60/R15)
Turn on megger and record the reading after 15 sec ( R15 and anather reading after 60 sec R60 )
Turn on megger and record the reading after 15 sec. (R15) and record anther reading after 60 sec. (R60)
Turn on megger and record the reading after 15 sec. (R15) and record anther reading after 60 second (R60)
Turn on megger and record the reading after 15 sec.(R15)
Turn on megger and record the reading after 15 sec.(R15) and
Turn on megger and record the reading after 15 sec.(R15) and record anther reading after 60 sec. (R60)
Turn on megger and record the reading after 15 sec.(R15)and record anther reading after 60 sec. (R60)
Turn-on to C position and dial switches of the tester to get balance of pointer.
Turns Ratio Test
Two winding transformers
Work to be Carried Out
X1-X0
X2-X0
X3-X0
Y1-Y2
Y2-Y3
Y3-Y1
You can change the range of the resistance to get accurate results, but it is not permitted to change the current setting while the current flow. If you need to change the current setting you should terminate the test.
and record anther reading after 60 sec. (R60)
current leads Must not be Disconnected while the lamp is flashing
inding
is neutral point with the neutral bushing.
order
permit must be issued.
staff should carry the suitable safety category,
telephone 416-292-8181, fax: 416-292-8188
to be Reviewed:
winding and for each phase. In the same manner and the same precautions.
